.TH AZURE-SETUP-WIZARD 1 "June 2026" "file2sharepoint 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
azure-setup-wizard \- interactive wizard to configure Azure / SharePoint credentials for file2sharepoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B azure-setup-wizard
.RI [ /path/to/.env ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B azure-setup-wizard
is an interactive Bash wizard that guides the user through creating or
updating the
.I .env
configuration file used by
.BR file2sharepoint (1).
.PP
When the
.B az
(Azure CLI) tool is available and client-credentials mode is chosen, the
wizard automates the full Azure App Registration process:
.IP \(bu 4
Creates an Azure AD Application and Service Principal.
.IP \(bu 4
Assigns the SharePoint
.I AllSites.Write
application permission
.RB ( 00000003-0000-0ff1-ce00-000000000000 ).
.IP \(bu 4
Attempts to grant tenant-wide admin consent (requires Global Administrator).
.IP \(bu 4
Generates a client secret (valid for 2 years).
.PP
If
.B az
is not installed, the wizard falls back to prompting for credentials that
were configured manually in the Azure Portal.
.PP
When a
.I .env
file already exists its values are pre-filled as defaults and a backup is
written to
.IR .env.bak .
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I /path/to/.env
Path to the configuration file to create or update.
Defaults to
.I .env
in the project root (one level above the
.I bin/
directory).
.SH INTERACTIVE PROMPTS
The wizard walks through the following sections in order:
.SS "SharePoint Destination"
.TP
.B OFFICE365_TENANT
Azure AD / SharePoint tenant name (e.g.\&
.IR yourcompany
for
.IR yourcompany.sharepoint.com ).
.TP
.B OFFICE365_SITE
SharePoint site collection name (e.g.\&
.IR TeamSite ).
.TP
.B SHAREPOINT_LIBRARY
Destination library or folder path inside the site
(e.g.\&
.IR "Documents"
or
.IR "Shared Documents/uploads" ).
Default:
.IR Documents .
.SS "Authentication Method"
.TP
.B 1 \(em App registration (default)
Creates or re-uses an Azure App Registration.
Requires the
.B az
CLI or manual entry of an existing Client ID and Secret.
.TP
.B 2 \(em User credentials
Prompts for an Office\~365 username and password.
Legacy authentication may be disabled by Conditional Access policies.
.SS "App Registration (client-credentials mode only)"
.TP
App display name
Defaults to
.IR file2sharepoint-<OFFICE365_SITE> .
.TP
Re-use existing app?
If an app with the same display name already exists the wizard offers to
re-use it and generate a new secret instead of creating a duplicate.
.TP
Admin consent
Attempted automatically via
.BR "az ad app permission admin-consent" .
If the current account lacks Global Administrator privileges a portal URL is
printed and the wizard pauses until the user confirms consent has been granted.
.SH OUTPUT
On success the wizard writes the
.I .env
file with mode
.B 600
(owner read/write only) and prints the Azure Portal URL of the created App
Registration.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B HOME
Used to locate
.B az
CLI credentials cached by
.BR "az login" .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .env
Configuration file written by the wizard.
.TP
.I .env.bak
Backup of the previous
.I .env
file (created if one already exists).
.SH REQUIRED AZURE PERMISSION
.TS
l l.
Resource	SharePoint (00000003-0000-0ff1-ce00-000000000000)
Role	AllSites.Write (1bfefb4e-e0b5-418b-a88f-73c46d2cc8e9)
Type	Application (not Delegated)
Consent	Tenant-wide admin consent required
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
Run the wizard and write credentials to the default project
.IR .env :
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
azure-setup-wizard
.EE
.RE
.PP
Write credentials to a system-wide location:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
azure-setup-wizard /etc/file2sharepoint/.env
.EE
.RE
.PP
Via the project Makefile shorthand:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
make setup-wizard
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR file2sharepoint (1),
.BR az (1)
.PP
Azure CLI installation:
.UR https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli
.UE
.PP
Azure App Registration documentation:
.UR https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app
.UE
.SH AUTHOR
Vítězslav Dvořák <info@vitexsoftware.cz>
.br
.UR https://github.com/VitexSoftware/file2sharepoint
.UE
