.TH FILE2SHAREPOINT 1 "June 2026" "file2sharepoint 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
file2sharepoint \- upload local files to Microsoft SharePoint and print the resulting URL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B file2sharepoint
.I "source/path/glob"
.I "SharePoint/dest/folder"
.RI [ /path/to/.env ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B file2sharepoint
uploads one or more local files (matched by a shell glob pattern) to a
Microsoft SharePoint document library and prints the download URL of each
uploaded file to standard output.
.PP
Authentication credentials and destination settings are read from a
.I .env
configuration file.
Use
.BR azure-setup-wizard (1)
to create and populate that file.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I source/path/glob
Shell glob expression that matches the local files to upload (e.g.\&
.IR /tmp/reports/*.pdf ).
Must be quoted when it contains wildcards.
.TP
.I SharePoint/dest/folder
Server-relative path of the destination folder inside the SharePoint site
(e.g.\&
.IR "Documents/uploads" ).
Overridden by the
.B SHAREPOINT_LIBRARY
environment variable if set.
.TP
.I /path/to/.env
Optional path to the
.I .env
configuration file.
Defaults to
.I ../.env
relative to the script location (i.e.\& the project root when running from
.IR src/ ).
.SH CONFIGURATION
Credentials are supplied through environment variables, typically loaded from a
.I .env
file.
.SS "Required"
.TP
.B OFFICE365_TENANT
Azure AD / SharePoint tenant name (the subdomain part of
.IR "yourcompany.sharepoint.com" ).
.TP
.B OFFICE365_SITE
Name of the SharePoint site collection.
.SS "Required \(em choose one authentication method"
.TP
.BR OFFICE365_CLIENTID " and " OFFICE365_CLSECRET
Client credentials for an Azure App Registration.
The application must have the SharePoint
.I AllSites.Write
application permission with admin consent granted.
.br
Recommended for automation and scheduled tasks.
.TP
.BR OFFICE365_USERNAME " and " OFFICE365_PASSWORD
Office\~365 user credentials.
Legacy auth may be blocked by Conditional Access policies in many tenants.
.SS "Optional"
.TP
.B SHAREPOINT_LIBRARY
Destination library or folder path inside the site.
Takes precedence over the
.I SharePoint/dest/folder
argument.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All files were uploaded successfully; one URL per file is printed to stdout.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred (no files matched, file unreadable, upload failed, missing
configuration).  A diagnostic message is written to stderr.
.SH EXAMPLES
Upload all PDF files in
.I /tmp/invoices/
to the
.I Documents/invoices
folder using credentials from
.IR /etc/file2sharepoint/.env :
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
file2sharepoint '/tmp/invoices/*.pdf' 'Documents/invoices' /etc/file2sharepoint/.env
.EE
.RE
.PP
Upload a single file using the default
.I .env
in the current directory:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
file2sharepoint report.xlsx 'Shared Documents'
.EE
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .env
Default configuration file (project root).
Created and populated by
.BR azure-setup-wizard (1).
.TP
.I .env.example
Template showing all supported variables (no real credentials).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR azure-setup-wizard (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Vítězslav Dvořák <info@vitexsoftware.cz>
.br
.UR https://github.com/VitexSoftware/file2sharepoint
.UE
